Change Design Canvas Discovery line Facts & figures Bias road Beware of BiasPerspectivesFacts & Fakes Reality in the environment Impact line Influence to impact & certainty Who will be changed? Audience / Customers Change flow plan This tool allows you to layout the change phases, relevant key results and success factors. It is not a project plan, and still creates a similar transparency for all leading and impacted. Launch & LearnConnect & ShareFail & ImproveGrow Innovate => Product adoption life cycle / Hype cycle Legal & organizational facts What is the change impact? What is the core of the change? Understanding of complexity What is the impact of the change?How complex is the environment?What skills and competencies are needed?How likely do the people agree? => Stacy Matrix & Cynefin framework Why do people resist the change? Complexity line Stacy Matrix structure  Y-Axis: What are we going to do? And how much clarity or ambiguity we have in the activities  X-Axis: How are we going to do it? And how much certainty we do have in required technology or methods to execute our activities Why do people agree to the change? What change practice fits to the complexity? What do internal/external stakeholder expect? What knowledge &  skills are required? What methods fits to your team? Change Design line Communication flow line Who is the Change Owner? What do we know about the environment? Who is the Change Team? Cross-Discipline & LevelsTrusted peopleChange & environment competence Who leads the journey where? Who is your guide? Why? What is in for people? What is in for business? Communication formats, media & tools How to create engagement? How do we measure impact & effectiveness? Communication flow plan  Internal & external communication activities, formats and engagement. Kind of a road book, what to do when. Journey kick-off Change flow complete? Change environment  An easy to understand, comprehensive description of the environment. Used as a reference to not forget relevant aspects. Change methods & tools Risk line How much transparency / risk? Plan B scenario Do we have a bias in the measurement? Are we aware of the change curve effects? Do you need a coach/guide with special skills, experience? Or someone who is on purpose from outside of you your system? Mind the gap Let's design the journey Let’s get ready Envision the future Top 10 impacts Your Change Journey Team Communication Milestones Top 10 facts